# CS221_Project

## 1. Introduction
With over 3 million cases in the United States per year, pneumonia is a dangerous and common lung infection caused by germs, such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi. While most healthy people recover from pneumonia in one to three weeks, the infection can still be life-threatening. The people most at risk are infants, young children, adults 65 or older, and people who have other health problems. Pneumonia symptoms can vary from mild to severe including chest pain, nausea, fever and shaking chills, and lower than normal body temperature. While these symptoms are helpful, some patients may show no signs of infection. Treating pneumonia as early as possible is vital, especially when dealing with patients that are most at risk. 

With these factors in mind, our project is to train a artificial neural network with deep learning so that when given an x-ray of a chest image we can estimate the probability that the lung has pneumonia. We will train our network with data containing images of normal lungs and lungs with pneumonia. Afterwards, we will test our network on unlabeled images of pneumonia to determine the efficacy of our neural network. Finally, we will use our neural network trained to detect pneumonia, and test it on X-Ray images of lungs with tuberculosis and evaluate how our system can be translated to lung tuberculosis. Our hope is to design a neural network that will be able to confidently detect the presence of infections as early as possible in order for doctors to be able to treat patients immediately, before the infection becomes invasive. 

## 2. Input / Output Behavior
Our project will consist of two portions. In the first, the input will be an image of a chest X-Ray, and the output will be the probability that the person in the image has pneumonia. The second portion of the project will apply the neural network trained on detecting pneumonia to detecting tuberculosis. For this portion, the input will again be an image of a chest X-Ray, and the output will be the probability that the person in the image has tuberculosis. 

## 3. Data
The data set for detecting pneumonia is [from Kaggle]( https://www.kaggle.com/paultimothymooney/chest-xray-pneumonia): “The dataset is organized into 3 folders (train, test, val) and contains subfolders for each image category (Pneumonia/Normal). There are 5,863 X-Ray images (JPEG) and 2 categories (Pneumonia/Normal). Chest X-ray images (anterior-posterior) were selected from retrospective cohorts of pediatric patients of one to five years old from Guangzhou Women and Children’s Medical Center, Guangzhou. All chest X-ray imaging was performed as part of patients’ routine clinical care. For the analysis of chest x-ray images, all chest radiographs were initially screened for quality control by removing all low quality or unreadable scans. The diagnoses for the images were then graded by two expert physicians before being cleared for training the AI system. In order to account for any grading errors, the evaluation set was also checked by a third expert.”

The data set for detecting lung tuberculosis is [from the U.S. National Library of Medicine](https://ceb.nlm.nih.gov/repositories/tuberculosis-chest-x-ray-image-data-sets/): “The  X-ray images in this data set have been acquired from the tuberculosis control program of the Department of Health and Human Services of Montgomery County, MD, USA. This set contains 138 posterior-anterior x-rays, of which 80 x-rays are normal and 58 x-rays are abnormal with manifestations of tuberculosis. All images are de-identified and available in DICOM format. The set covers a wide range of abnormalities, including effusions and miliary patterns. The data set includes radiology readings available as a text file.”
